---
layout: post
title: ZFS Mirror on Solaris Install
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 08/12/2010 - David Goodlad.

During the install of Solaris Express 11, the installer will only install to a
single disk. It explains that it's simple to setup a mirrored pair of
boot/root disks; just use zfs attach.

{% highlight sh %}
# zpool attach rpool c7t4d0 c7t5d0
cannot label 'c7t5d0': EFI labeled devices are not supported on root pools.
{% endhighlight %}

Hmm. A quick google search turned up a number of people comlaining about this
issue, and a consistent set of responses. "Use format to install an SMI
label" was the most common one, and there were more technical answers that had
you read the VTOC from the first disk and write it to the other. None of these
helped. 'zpool' refused to setup the mirror because it saw an EFI label, while
'format' reported nothing of the sort.

It turns out that we were doing the wrong thing all along. Specifying the
_slice_ on each drive fixed it:

{% highlight sh %}
# zpool attach rpool c7t4d0s0 c7t5d0s0
{% endhighlight %}

All the other instructions found around the net then applied properly.

The reason for this issue is that, as I understand it, if you tell zfs to use
the entire disk rather than a partition that spans the entire disk, it will
write an EFI label to the first sector(s?) of the disk. Booting from a disk
like This won't work in a normal x86 system for a number of reasons (_cough_
legacy crap _cough_), so we have to use a solaris slice as the zfs device.

Hopefully this helps people like me who run into this same issue!
